W-12241092-apikit-graphql-api-mapping-CP (#111)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-graphql-api-mapping.adoc

> = Mapping a GraphQL API to your Data Sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Mapping a GraphQL API to Your Data Sources
```

Author: Thanks!

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

== Select Sources

The module sources vary depending on the implementation of your GraphQL API. APIkit for GraphQL provides two kind of sources:
* Data Fetchers
* Data Loaders
Your selection depends on your implementation needs. 

> In addition, GraphQL is transport-layer agnostic so you choose the main connector listener depending on the protocol that you want to serve your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

GraphQL is transport-layer agnostic, so you choose the main connector listener depending on the protocol that you want to serve your data.
```

Author: Thanks!

=== Add a Listener

The inbound endpoint that triggers the main application flow is the connector listener specific to the client-server protocol of your choice. It is common that GraphQL communicates over HTTP, so APIkit scaffolder generates an HTTP listener by default, but you can choose another source for serving your data over a different protocol.

=== Add a Data Fetcher

Data fetchers are sources of Mule flows. They fulfill the data of a single-object field in a query result. The combination of the following key parts identify them:

* *Object type name*: The name of one of the object types in your schema.

> * * Field name*: The name of one of the fields that are part of the object type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Field name*: The name of one of the fields that are part of the object type.
```

Author: Thanks!

> You can add data fetchers for every object field defined on the schema, regardless of the field type. If the Mule application does not have configured a data fetcher for a field, the parent type populates the field value. Otherwise, the data the client requested is not fulfilled, so it results in *null*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add data fetchers for every object field defined on the schema, regardless of the field type. If the Mule application does not have a data fetcher configured for a field, the parent type populates the field value. Otherwise, the client-requested data is not fulfilled, resulting in `null`.
```

Author: Thanks!

=== Add a Data Loader

As data fetchers, data loaders are also sources of Mule flows. They batch requests related to an object type. Unlike data fetchers, a unique key identifies them:

* *Object type name*: The name of one of the object types in your schema.

Data loaders solve the optimization issue of the N+1 requests when implementing GraphQL APIs. This issue occurs when N additional query statements are executed to fetch data that could have been retrieved when performing the first query.

> At run time, the module looks for a data fetcher first. If it is not available, it looks for a data loader. Specifically, in case a data fetcher and a data loader exist for the same object type, it uses the data fetcher as the first choice for resolving a field. Note that this can impact your API performance because the data fetcher keeps getting invoked N+1 times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At run time, the module looks for a data fetcher first. If it is not available, it looks for a data loader. Specifically, in case a data fetcher and a data loader exist for the same object type, the module uses the data fetcher as the first choice for resolving a field. This process can impact your API performance because the data fetcher keeps getting invoked N+1 times.
```

Author: Thanks!

== Choose Operations

The module provides a set of operations that are fundamental for the correct design and execution of a GraphQL API implementation:
* Route
* Serialize
* Serialize Batch

> === Route Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion

=== Route Queries
```

Author: Thanks!

> The “Route” operation is the entry point of a GraphQL service. It parses, validates, and executes the query by traversing the graph and calling the data fetcher and data loaders required to fulfill the query result.

Reviewer: These operation names(Route, Serialize, Serialize Batch) should be bold if they match what is shown in the UI, otherwise just remove the Quotes

Author: Yes! They should be bold! 
Thanks!

=== Serialize Data Fetchers

The “Serialize” operation occurs at the end of a flow that has a data fetcher source. The same pair of keys that identify the data fetcher (object type name and field name) identifies it. 

=== Serialize Batch Data Loaders

The “Serialize Batch” operation occurs at the end of a flow that has a data loader source. The same key that identifies the data loader (object type name) identifies it. 

> NOTE: *Serialize* and *Serialize Batch* operations leverage the use of data sense at design time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Serialize* and *Serialize Batch* operations leverage the use of data sense at design time.
```

Author: Thanks!

== See Also

> * xref:doc.adoc[Some Relevant Doc Article]

Reviewer: Update article link

Author: We are still talking about what link could be included, and if it should be included. So I'll leave this comment as a reminder ;) 
Thanks!
